what is node.js?
how node.js work?
where can use node.js
what are modeuls in node.js
what do you undertand be the term l/o?
what is mongoDb?
what is express JS packags?
how to create simple express application? 
what is Schema?
what is docker.
what is API ?
what is NPM?
why is node.js being preferred over other back-End  technologies like PHP and JAVA ?
anguler and nod.js এর মধ্যে পার্থক্য কি কি ? 
কোন ডাটাবেজ সবছেয়ে বেশি ব্যবহার হয় node.js এর সাথে ?  
fornt-End and back-End devloper er  মধ্যে পার্থক্য কি কি ? 
ব্যাক-এন্ড ডেভেলপারদের কী কী দক্ষতা থাকা উচিত?
একটি ব্যাক-এন্ড ডেভেলপারের ভূমিকা এবং দায়িত্ব কি কি ?
mention a cauple of pupoler libraries use in node.js 
what are the pros and cons in node.js?
what is the command use the import external libraries?
what does event-driven programing menn? 
what is the event loop in the node.js ?
what is an Event Emitter in node.js?
what are the stream in node.js ?
what are the two type API function in node.js?
what is the packags.json file?
how would you use a URL modeul in node.js? 
How do you install update and delete a dependency ? 
how to create a simple server in node.js that returns "hello world"?
explian Asynchronous and non-blocking API in node.js 
how do you inplement Async in node.js ? 
what is the purpose of module.exports ?
what is callback function in node.js ?
what is repel in node.js ? 
What is tha controll flow function ?
How control flow control the function colls ?
what is the diffarent between  frok() and  spanwn() methoda in node.js?
what is the use buffer  class in node .js ? 
what is the piping in node.js 
what is the test piramid in node.js ? 
Discribe the exit code of node.js ? 
explain the concept of the middleware in node.js 
what are the type of HTTP Request ? 
how would you connect mongoDb Database no node.js ? 
what is the use of NODE_ENV?
what is callback hell? 
what is the reactor pattern in node.js ? 
what are some of flags read/write oparator in file?
how will you open a file using node .js ? 
